Story 1

07/02/2022,BC-WORLD:Reuters World News Summary

Following is a summary of current world news briefs. Planes bring U.S. troops to Poland, with most expected on Monday Two U.S. military planes could be seen landing at a Polish airport on Monday morning and more were expected later in the day, bringing the bulk of the extra troops that President Joe Biden ordered to Europe last week over the Ukraine crisis. Biden has ordered nearly 3,000 troops to move to eastern Europe to protect the eastern flank of NATO from the possibility of a Russian attack on Ukraine. Russia, which has deployed more than 100,000 troops near the Ukrainian frontier, denies Western accusations that it is planning an invasion. Iran says success of nuclear talks hinges on removal of sanctions Iran said on Monday that Washington had to make a ""political decision"" regarding lifting sanctions on the Islamic Republic as Tehran's demand for their full removal to revive a 2015 nuclear deal with world powers was non-negotiable. After eight rounds of indirect talks between Tehran and Washington since April, differences remain about the speed and scope of lifting sanctions on Tehran, including Iran’s demand for a U.S. guarantee of no further punitive steps, and how and when to restore curbs on Iran’s atomic work. Azerbaijan releases eight Armenian prisoners in mediation effort with France and EU Azerbaijan has released eight Armenian prisoners in an effort to facilitate new talks with France and the European Union on the border conflict between to two central Asian countries, said European Council President Charles Michel on Monday. ""The release by Azerbaijan and reparation to Armenia of 8 Armenian detainees is another sign of positive developments following the meeting with @EmmanuelMacron, @azpresident and @NikolPashinyan,"" wrote Charles Michel on Twitter. Group of 11 climate activists glue themselves to Berlin motorway Eleven climate activists glued themselves to the asphalt of the German capital's main motorway, causing rush hour traffic jams on Monday, in the latest protest demanding a law against food waste and cuts in greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture. Activists from the group ""Last Generation"", who also placed food on the A100 motorway that had been discarded earlier, previously blocked roads and motorways in Berlin, Hamburg and Stuttgart on several occasions last week. South Africa failed to foresee, disrupt deadly unrest, report says South Africa's police and intelligence services failed to anticipate and disrupt days of arson and looting last year in which more than 300 people died, a report into the unrest commissioned by the president and released on Monday found. The violence was sparked by the imprisonment of former president Jacob Zuma for defying a court order to testify at a corruption inquiry and fanned by anger over the poverty and inequality that persist almost three decades after the end of apartheid. France's Macron flies to Moscow in bid to ease Ukraine tensions French President Emmanuel Macron flies to Moscow on Monday in bid to persuade Russian President Vladimir Putin to dial down tensions with Ukraine, where Western powers fear the Kremlin plans an invasion. Moscow gave the visit a guarded welcome, saying it would listen to Macron's ideas, but played down expectations of a breakthrough. Ukraine to raise 'unfair' weapons issue during German minister's visit Germany Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock promised unequivocal support for Ukraine on Monday as she headed to Kyiv, which wants Berlin to do more to help it defend itself against a possible attack by Russia. Ukrainian officials have publicly criticised Germany for refusing to sell defensive weapons to Kyiv and over its perceived reluctance to prevent gas flowing through the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia if Moscow launches an attack. Olympics-China's U.N. envoy says choice of Uyghur torchbearer not meant to deflect Western criticism China's United Nations envoy has rejected his U.S. counterpart's remark that China's choice of an ethnic Uyghur as a torchbearer for the Olympic flame at the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics was an attempt to distract from his country's alleged rights abuses against Muslim minorities. Ambassador Zhang Jun said in a statement on the embassy's website that China ""sternly refutes"" the ""unwarranted accusations"" made by U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield in an interview with CNN. EU demands end to torture in Uganda after images of author stir anger The European Union on Monday demanded punishment for perpetrators of torture in Uganda after images of a recently detained author circulated in domestic media showing marks on his body, eliciting public outrage. Last week, media published images and accounts of award-winning author Kakwenza Rukirabashaija, 33, who told of what he said was his torture during his incarceration by the security services. Canada police seen getting tough as trucker protests continue As the protest against the Canadian government's health measures and vaccine mandates entered an eleventh day on Monday, police have threatened to clamp down after facing criticism for lack of action that has crippled the national capital. The ""Freedom Convoy"" consisting largely of truckers began as a movement against a Canadian vaccine requirement for cross-border drivers. But it has since evolved into a rallying point against Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's strict measures to fight the pandemic.

Story 2

24/01/2022,BC-AMERICA:Reuters US Domestic News Summary

Following is a summary of current US domestic news briefs. Michael Avenatti, U.S. lawyer who battled Trump, goes on trial in fraud case Lawyer Michael Avenatti, a fierce critic of former President Donald Trump, goes on trial on Monday on charges he defrauded his former client, adult film star Stormy Daniels, whom he represented in cases against Trump. Federal prosecutors in Manhattan say Avenatti, 50, embezzled $300,000 in book contract proceeds intended for Daniels, in part by forging her signature in a letter to an agent. Firefighters gaining control of wildfire that closed scenic California highway Firefighters gained greater control on Sunday of a wildfire that closed northern California's scenic coastal highway and threatened a famous bridge, although about 500 people stayed under evacuation orders, officials said. The so-called Colorado Fire, about 15 miles (24 km) south of Monterey and just north of the area known as Big Sur, broke out on Friday night and crossed the Pacific Coast Highway, burning for a time on the ocean side of the road. Arizona Democratic Party formally censures Sinema The executive committee of the Arizona Democratic Party (ADP) formally censured U.S. Senator Kyrsten Sinema over her vote against changing rules in the chamber to steer through voting rights legislation, the state party said on Saturday. Sinema was one of two Democratic senators who joined with Republicans to vote against lowering the Senate's 60-vote threshold to 50 so that the Senate could pass voting rights bill without bipartisan support. Aerial surveys detect dozens of methane 'super-emitters' in Permian Around 30 oil and gas facilities across the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico spewed large amounts of methane for three years, emitting the equivalent climate pollution from half a million cars, according to a report released on Monday. The facilities, which include well pads, pipelines, compressor stations and processing facilities, were observed as ""persistently"" emitting large volumes of methane over the three years of aerial surveys done by the Environmental Defense Fund and research group Carbon Mapper. Oath Keepers founder Rhodes to seek release ahead of U.S. sedition trial U.S. prosecutors on Monday will argue that Stewart Rhodes, founder of the far-right Oath Keepers, should remain in custody while he awaits trial on seditious conspiracy charges for his alleged role in the deadly Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol. Rhodes will have a detention hearing at 10:00 a.m. CST (1600 GMT) before a judge in federal court in Plano, Texas. Sarah Palin's defamation trial against New York Times set to begin Sarah Palin and the New York Times are set to face off in a New York courtroom on Monday at a trial in which the 2008 Republican U.S. vice presidential candidate and former Alaska governor seeks to hold the newspaper liable for defamation. Palin, 57, has accused the Times and its former editorial page editor James Bennet of damaging her reputation in a June 14, 2017, editorial linking her to a 2011 mass shooting in Arizona that killed six people and wounded U.S. Representative Gabby Giffords. Derek Chauvin's ex-colleagues face trial over deadly Minneapolis arrest A jury was due to hear opening statements on Monday in the federal civil rights trial of three former Minneapolis police officers who took part in the deadly arrest of George Floyd. Tou Thao, J. Alexander Kueng and Thomas Lane are charged with violating Floyd's civil rights during the arrest of the handcuffed Black man on a road outside a Minneapolis grocery store in May 2020, video of which sparked street protests against racism and police brutality around the world. White House to hold second Competition Council meet on Monday -federal officials The White House is set to hold the second meeting of its Competition Council on Monday, federal agencies said on Sunday. Officials from two federal agencies told Reuters about the meeting and that their departments planned to attend. The White House did not confirm the meeting would take place but said President Joe Biden would meet on Monday ""with members of his administration on efforts to lower prices for working families."" U.S. Capitol riot probe to report any phony elector evidence to Justice Dept-chairman The U.S. House probe of the deadly assault on the Capitol will share with federal prosecutors any evidence of potential crimes aimed at pushing phony Republican electors in states won by Democratic President Joe Biden, the committee's chairman said on Sunday. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Jan. 6 is looking for evidence that Republican officials in some states sought to nominate their own slates of electors, rather than those chosen by voters in 2020, panel chairman Representative Bernie Thompson told CBS News. Pro-Trump death threats prompt bills in 3 states to protect election workers In Vermont, lawmakers are considering bills to make it easier to prosecute people who threaten election officials. In Maine, proposed legislation would stiffen penalties for such intimidation. In Washington, state senators voted this month to make threatening election workers a felony. The measures follow a Reuters series of investigative reports documenting a nationwide wave of threats and harassment against election administrators by Donald Trump supporters who embrace the former president’s false voting-fraud claims. Sponsors and supporters of the legislation in all three states cited Reuters reporting as an impetus for proposing tougher enforcement.

Story 3

24/01/2022,ETHIOPIA-CONFLICT/WHO:WHO 'sets aside' Ethiopia's request to probe WHO chief's links to rebellious Tigrayan forces

GENEVA, Jan 24 (Reuters) - A World Health Organization (WHO) official said on Monday that the global body would postpone a decision on Ethiopia's request to investigate its leader for allegedly supporting rebellious forces fighting the Ethiopian government. WHO Executive Board chair Patrick Amoth made the statement at a meeting of the board in Geneva where current director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus’ bid for a second term as head of the U.N. agency is due to be discussed. Tedros, an Ethiopian national, said earlier this month that aid was being blocked from getting through to his home region of Tigray, where rebellious forces are fighting the central government. ""This is an extremely complicated matter with political implications and outside the agreed procedural framework of this committee,"" said Amoth. ""Accordingly, I’m inclined to the view that this request should be set aside and if appropriate addressed by those concerned as they see may deem appropriate."" None of the WHO’s 34 board members objected. On Jan. 14, Ethiopia's foreign ministry accused Tedros, who previously served as the Ethiopian health minister and foreign minister, of spreading misinformation about the war in the country's north. The ministry said that Tedros' remarks compromised the WHO's credibility and independence. Ethiopia's statement came days after Tedros said that aid was being blocked from getting through to Tigray. The WHO said at the time that Ethiopia's foreign affairs ministry had sent a diplomatic communication, called a note verbale. Thousands have been killed in the conflict in Tigray, which spread to two neighbouring regions in northern Ethiopia before Tigrayan forces were forced to withdraw back to Tigray in December. (Reporting by Emma Farge Writing by Maggie Fick Editing by Nick Macfie)

Story 4

24/01/2022,UKRAINE-CRISIS/BRITAIN-MILITARY (URGENT):UK has no plans to send combat troops to Ukraine - PM's spokesman

Britain has no plans to send combat troops to Ukraine to help it defend itself against any Russian aggression, Prime Minister Boris Johnson's spokesman said on Monday. Asked about comments by Ukraine’s Ambassador to Britain that he would welcome British soldiers in the event of a Russian invasion, Johnson's spokesman said: ""There are absolutely no plans to send UK combat troops to Ukraine."" Britain has already sent a small number of infantry troops to Ukraine to help with training in defensive weapons. (Reporting by Kylie MacLellan; editing by James Davey)

Story 5

24/01/2022,HONGKONG-SECURITY/JUDICIARY (PIX):Hong Kong's top judge defends city's rule of law in face of international concern

By James Pomfret and Greg Torode HONG KONG, Jan 24 (Reuters) - Hong Kong's top judge on Monday said the city's vaunted judicial independence was ""a fact"", acknowledging international and local concerns as prosecutions mount under a Chinese-imposed national security law. Chief Justice Andrew Cheung's remarks came at an event to formally open a legal year in which lawyers expect to see significant national security cases move up through the courts he oversees. ""Judicial independence in Hong Kong exists as a fact,"" Cheung said. ""And we are here today to bear witness to this fact."" Some diplomats, legal scholars and activists are watching developments closely, seeing judicial independence and the rule of law as the bedrock supporting the freedoms and capitalist way of life Hong Kong was promised when Britain handed over its former colony to Chinese rule in 1997. Critics say that the security law, which took effect in June 2020, puts those freedoms at risk with tough bail provisions and expanded police powers under a legal regime that punishes subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life imprisonment. It also gives the city's leader Chief Executive Carrie Lam the power to select which judges will be able to hear national security cases. The first person convicted under the national security law, Tong Ying-kit, was jailed for nine years on secession and terrorism charges after he rode a motorbike into a group of policeman while flying a protest banner with the words ""Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of our Times."" Hong Kong and Chinese officials say the law was vital to ensure stability after the Asian financial hub was rocked by sometimes-violent pro-democracy protests for much of 2019, and say prosecutions are non political. Cheung said he was confident that Hong Kong's fundamental human rights, protected by the city's mini-constitution, remained intact. ""The rule of law ensures and promotes fairness, equality and justice, which are the core values in the administration of justice under our system of law,"" he said. ""Our law reports are full of cases where these fundamental rights are generously interpreted and restrictions narrowly confined by reference to their aim, relevance, necessity and proportionality."" Speaking to the media afterwards, Cheung said he was unable to reveal the number or identities of judges cleared for national security cases, saying that while he could advise and make recommendations to the city's leader, she was the ""designating authority"" according to the security law. ""I'm afraid the consultation is done confidentially and it's not appropriate for me to disclose any details. ""It's not for us, or for me to answer for her the criteria for designation."" When asked about the ongoing subversion case for 47 high-profile democrats, many of whom have been denied bail for nearly a year and remanded in detention before a full trial, Cheung said while he saw a need for dealing with cases ""expeditiously"", procedural steps couldn't be rushed. ""These are not steps you can sidestep"" he said. (Reporting by James Pomfret and Greg Torode; Editing by Andrea Ricci) 

Story 6

24/01/2022,HAITI-QUAKE/ (URGENT):Earthquake of magnitude 5.6 strikes Haiti region

Jan 24 (Reuters) - An earthquake of 5.6 magnitude struck the Haiti region on Monday, the European Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said. The quake, which was at a depth of 10km (6.21 miles) was later revised to 5.2 magnitude, EMSC said. (Reporting by Shubhendu Satish Deshmukh in Bengaluru

Story 7

24/01/2022,"AFGHANISTAN-NORWAY/ (PIX, TV):Western diplomats begin humanitarian talks with Taliban in Norway"

OSLO, Jan 24 (Reuters) - U.S. and European diplomats began talks with representatives of Afghanistan's Taliban rulers on Monday on how to alleviate the country's humanitarian crisis. With millions of Afghans at risk of starvation this winter as poverty deepens, Norway is facilitating the meetings Norway and its NATO allies do not formally recognise the Taliban-led administration that seized power last year, but see talks as a necessity, given the depth of the crisis. ""We will continue clear-eyed diplomacy with the Taliban regarding our concerns and our abiding interest in a stable, rights-respecting and inclusive Afghanistan,"" U.S. special representative Thomas West tweeted on Sunday. Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the European Union, as well as Norway, joined the meetings. Oslo's invitation was criticised by some Afghan exile groups as well as Norway's right-wing opposition Progress Party, which said any cooperation with the Taliban would only serve to strengthen the militant group's position. But Norwegian Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt said Afghanistan's 39 million people were being overwhelmed by an economic collapse, the COVID-19 pandemic and drought. ""One million children may die of hunger if aid does not reach them in time, and an unfathomable 97% of the population may fall below the poverty line this year,"" she said. The Taliban delegation, led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, will not be granted meetings with Huitfeldt or other cabinet-level ministers, but may meet with a junior minister, Norway has said. (Reporting by Terje Solsvik; Editing by Kevin Liffey)

Story 8

24/01/2022,"BRITAIN-STERLING/ (UPDATE 2, PIX):UPDATE 2-Sterling at three-week low as equity slide hurts riskier currencies"

(Updates prices) By Elizabeth Howcroft LONDON, Jan 24 (Reuters) - The British pound fell on Monday to its lowest in three weeks versus the U.S. dollar, as investors sold riskier assets amid expectations of Fed tightening, mounting tensions with Russia and falling stocks. The market is bracing for a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting this week that could signal the removal of its vast stimulus programme. The United States also said on Sunday it was ordering diplomats' family members to leave Ukraine, in one of the clearest signs yet that Washington is bracing for an aggressive Russian move in the region. The dollar rose and riskier currencies such as the British pound and Australian dollar suffered. British business activity grew less than anticipated in January, with the Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) touching an 11-month low, but cost pressures stayed high. ""The PMIs aren't telling us much new. Growth conditions were impacted by the arrival of Omicron, supply-chain pressures are starting to ease, and labour market shortages/disruptions continue to fuel a more persistent inflation backdrop,"" Simon Harvey, head of FX analysis at Monex Europe, said. Investors expect the Bank of England to hike rates in February, after data showed on Wednesday that UK inflation rose faster than expected to its highest in nearly 30 years in December. The pound hit a three-week low of $1.34435 at 1649 GMT, and by 1705 GMT it was at $1.3447, down 0.8% on the day. Versus the euro, it edged down around 0.5%, at 84.13 pence . The pound also touched a one-month low versus the Japanese yen, after the pair tumbled 1.4% last week. POLITICAL RISK An investigation into boozy parties at the official residence of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson during Britain's 2020 lockdown is due to be published this week. ""We saw early in the European trading session today that pressure on the pound was largely centred on the increased probability of Johnson's resignation this week, but as the morning has gone on a broader USD bid along with deteriorating PMIs has extended the pound's losses,"" Monex Europe's Simon Harvey said. Other analysts said the investigation had not had an impact on the pound. ""We do not expect heightened political uncertainty to materially impact pound performance given there is unlikely to be any near-term change in government policies,"" MUFG currency analyst Lee Hardman wrote in a client note. ING FX strategists Chris Turner and Francesco Pesole told clients: ""Politics has yet to hit GBP on the view that even if PM Johnson were to resign, Chancellor (finance minister Rishi) Sunak would be seen as a safe pair of hands as an alternative."" (Reporting by Elizabeth Howcroft; Editing by Andrew Heavens and Mark Heinrich)

Story 9

24/01/2022,"USA-STOCKS/ (UPDATE 2):US STOCKS-Nasdaq dives 3%, S&P 500 on course to confirm a correction "

(For a Reuters live blog on U.S., UK and European stock markets, click LIVE/ or type LIVE/ in a news window.) Kohl's surges as Sycamore, Acacia show takeover interest Energy, financials among top S&amp;P 500 sectoral losers Indexes drop: Dow 2.17%, S&amp;P 2.73%, Nasdaq 3.2% (Updates to open) By Devik Jain and Bansari Mayur Kamdar Jan 24 (Reuters) - U.S. stock indexes dropped on Monday, with the S&amp;P 500 on course to confirm a correction as the prospect of a Russian attack on Ukraine posed as a double whammy for investors already worried about aggressive policy tightening by the Federal Reserve. A correction is confirmed when an index closes 10% or more lower than its record closing level. The S&amp;P 500 index is now down 10.9% from its record closing high on Jan 3. All the 11 major S&amp;P sectors declined in early trading, with nine of them falling more than 2% each. The economically sensitive small-cap Russell 2000 index slid 2.8%. The index dropped as much as 20.3% from its Nov. 8 peak, putting it on course to confirm a bear market. The U.S. State Department announced on Sunday it was ordering diplomats' family members to leave Ukraine, as U.S. President Joe Biden weighed options for boosting America's military assets in Eastern Europe to counter a buildup of Russian troops. The order was one of the clearest signs yet that American officials are bracing for an aggressive Russian move in the region. A widely watched gauge of investor anxiety in U.S. markets - the CBOE Volatility index - was last trading at its highest level since January 2021. ""Ukraine clearly is a concern that's weighing on the markets today,"" said Darren Schuringa, chief executive officer of ASYMmetric ETFs in New York. ""This will continue to weigh on the markets for the foreseeable future until there's some type of resolution and more clarity as to what the outcome looks like."" The Fed's policy meeting concludes on Wednesday and the market will pay close attention to how worried the Fed is over surging inflation and how aggressive the U.S. central bank will be in trying to contain it. Fed funds futures traders are fully pricing in a 25 basis point hike in March, in addition to three more rate increases by year-end. Stocks are off to a rough start in 2022, with the Nasdaq index now down 16% from its November closing peak as prospects of faster policy tightening steps spurred a rally in Treasury yields that dealt a sharp blow to Wall Street's growth names. At 10:20 a.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 744.95 points, or 2.17%, at 33,520.42, the S&amp;P 500 was down 120.17 points, or 2.73%, at 4,277.77, and the Nasdaq Composite was down 439.17 points, or 3.19%, at 13,329.75. Tesla Inc slid 7.7% to lead declines among the mega-cap technology stocks. ""For many tech companies, multiples and valuations are certainly high in a lot of instances and so if you don't deliver the earnings to justify the valuation, there's room for continued and further corrections,"" Schuringa said. Kohl's Corp surged 31.6% after Reuters reported private equity firm Sycamore Partners is preparing to make a bid for the U.S. department store days after a consortium backed by activist investment firm Starboard Value proposed a buyout. Declining issues outnumbered advancers for a 12.49-to-1 ratio on the NYSE and for a 7.33-to-1 ratio on the Nasdaq. The S&amp;P index recorded one new 52-week high and 27 new lows, while the Nasdaq recorded two new highs and 1,146 new lows. (Reporting by Devik Jain and Bansari Mayur Kamdar in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel)

Story 10

24/01/2022,SUDAN-POLITICS/ (PIX):Sudan security forces fire tear gas on protesters

Latest rounds of protests since late-October Activists arrested prior to protest Large crowds in other cities including Madani International pressure to reduce violence By Khalid Abdelaziz KHARTOUM, Jan 24 (Reuters) - Sudanese security forces fired teargas at protesters as they attempted to march towards the presidential palace on Monday during the latest in a series of demonstrations against military rule. Such protests, along with barricades throughout the capital and a general strike last week, have continued since the military took power on Oct. 25, ending a partnership with civilian political parties since the ouster of Omar al-Bashir in 2019. Some 73 protesters have been killed and more than 2,000 injured in crackdowns on the protests, according to medics aligned with the protest movement, mainly by gunshots and tear gas canisters. Monday's protests were met with teargas, stun grenades and water cannon spraying red water as protesters stood 1.2 kilometres (0.75 miles) away from the presidential palace, a Reuters witness said. In the city of Omdurman, a Reuters witness saw a heavy security presence and tear gas fired on a main road. The protests were called by neighbourhood resistance committees, which advocate a stance of ""no legitimacy, no negotiation, no partnership"" towards the military. One committee reported the arrest of at least four members, while another said its headquarters were raided. There were also large protests in the city of Madani, where witnesses said protesters marched towards the house of a protester killed on Friday before heading to the state government building. Social media users shared images of other protests in the cities of El Fasher, Shendi, and Elobeid. Last week, the United States condemned the use of force against protesters, saying it would consider additional measures to hold perpetrators of violence accountable. Military leaders have said that the right to peaceful protest is protected and have commissioned investigations into the bloodshed. The violence has deepened the deadlock between pro-democracy groups and the military leadership. As protests rage, military leader Abdelfattah al-Burhan appointed deputy ministers to a caretaker government which passed this year's budget On Monday, Abdelghani Alnaeem, former deputy foreign minister under Bashir, confirmed that he and more than 100 other diplomats and administrators who had been fired as part of an anti-corruption taskforce were re-instated by a judge. ""This is a positive step,"" he said. (Additional reporting and writing by Nafisa Eltahir; Editing by Alex Richardson)

